# Deployment-Architecture-Analysis-Framework
A model-based approach for analysing and validating deployment architectures.


## Start the Framework
First, you need to clone the repository using ```git clone https://github.com/alexxschulzz/Deployment-Architecture-Analysis-Framework.git```.

It is also necessary to install Docker Desktop, as the framework's microservices and databases run in their own Docker containers. Follow the instructions on the Docker website to install Docker Desktop: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/.

Now the framework can be started from the command line, by first navigating to the cloned repository folder and running ```docker compose up -d``` there. The status of the containers can be tracked via the Docker Desktop app.

## Interaction with the framework
The framework can be controlled via the user interface of the MinIO ```minioInOut``` instance. Architecture files can be uploaded for training or analysis and the results of the analysis can be retrieved there.

Interface: http://localhost:9092 (Username: user, Password: password)

### Training of the analysis service
To select architecture files for the training of the analysis service, they must be placed in the ```training``` bucket. The framework will recognize the files and start processing them automatically.

### Analyze architectures
To analyze one or more architectures, they must be placed in the ```analysis``` bucket. There they are automatically processed and analyzed. More detailed information about the analysis of the files and found incorrect components or relationships are shown via the console of the ```graphanalysis-service``` service. This console can be easily accessed via the Docker Desktop app. 

In addition, 30s after the last processing, the results of the analysis are stored in the ```results``` bucket. There you can find the following 4 files:

1. ```component_analysis_data.json```: Provides an overview of the training data, including the components of the architectures and their relationships.
2. ```valid_architectures.json```: A list of all architectures that have been classified as 'valid'. 
3. ```invalid_architectures.json```: A list of all architectures classified as 'invalid', including detailed information about invalid components, relationships and unknown subgraphs. 
4. ```invalid_stats.json```: A collected overview of all invalid components, relationships and unknown subgraphs and their frequency of occurrence in the previous analyses.

## Further information on the framework
The metadata for each microservice, including the claim check keys, is stored in individual MySQL tables that can be viewed through ```phpMyAdmin```: http://localhost:8081/ (Username: user, Password: password).

The processed architecture files and the CSV files generated by the microservices (e.g. the architecture files converted to EDMM) can be accessed via the MinIO instance ```minioArchitectureFiles```: http://localhost:9090/ (Username: user, Password: password).